# 2023

## 23.05

### New Config File goobi\_mail.xml

With the new version, mail sending is configured in a central place. For this purpose, `goobi_mail.xml` must be stored as a new configuration file and the configuration for sending mails must be transferred to the config. The following plugins send mails: `goobi-plugin-step-sendMail` and `goobi-plugin-step-leiden-file-delivery`.

```
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intranda/goobi-workflow/master/Goobi/install/config/goobi_mail.xml
```

## 23.04

### Image comments are saved as a process property

Image comments were previously stored in the `images/` folder as a `comments_*.json` file. Instead, they are now stored as an `image comments *` process property. They have to be migrated, if they should still be accessible.
This can be ignored if the display of image comments has not been explicitly set to `true`:
```bash
grep ShowImageComments /opt/digiverso/goobi/config/goobi_config.properties
```

## 23.02

### Config file change for the plugin goobi\_plugin\_administration\_data\_poller

An update of the plug-in has added a new configuration option for activating and deactivating individual jobs. This option must be added during an update. 
To do this, `enabled="false"` or `enabled="true"` must be added to each \<rule\> tag in the config file plugin\_intranda\_administration\_data\_poller.xml.

## 23.01

### Config file change for the plugin intranda\_step\_pdf-extraction

Typically, one would like to extract the CropBox area of a PDF page. Since without further configuration the MediaBox is used, one should set the option `<generatorParameter>-cropbox</generatorParameter>` in the `images` block. For example like this:

```bash
xmlstarlet ed --inplace -s '//config/images[not(generatorParameter)]' -t elem -n generatorParameter -v '-cropbox' /opt/digiverso/goobi/config/plugin_intranda_step_pdf-extraction.xml
```
